---
layout: post
title:  "Quote of the day"
date:   2022-09-15 18:59:21 +0530
permalink: "/quote/"
---

I went through a quote in a social media. I just wanted to share my own interpretation of it. The reason why I wanted to share is that it holded a deep meaning within it, which fascinated my thought process. 

Here you go:

> Success is our own shadow. Dont try to catch it, walk your own way, it will automatically follow you. At the same time remember that shadow follows you only when you walk towards brightness.

Let me break it down part by part : 

* ```Success is our own shadow```

Success is our own thing. I mean, there are people who believe in **zero-sum theory**, i.e growth of one person suppresses the growth of other person, which is completely ridiculous. This often leads to jealousy which ultimately lead to enmity, which is not good. 

Believe in **win-win theory** and indeed it is. That is, when a person around you grows, you will aswell grow together. I often feel it as a compounding effect. This often reduces ones pressure from trying to compete uselessly. But still I agree that some healthy competition is vital for ones growth, but that should'nt be on cost of others. 

* ```Dont try to catch it, walk your own way, it will automatically follow you```

Dont chase success. Some people are attracted towards short-term success. But I dont think it will work out on a long run. Do your current stuff with atmost sincerity, whether it be your studies, project or work. Do it without comparing yourself with others, be in your own way, success will definitely follow you. 

* ```Shadow follows you only when you walk towards brightness ```

This is my favourite part of the quote. When I read the quote for the first time, this line struck my mind like _"wait!! what?"_.
 
It can be interpreted in multiple ways. It atriculates the point that when you aim for the collective welfare of the society your success will automatically follow you. 

<br>

---
### Concluding Note

Life is ofcourse short, make your best to _give back_ to the society in best possible ways which will ultimately lead to your *true success*.
